documentation for edge to edge display (#10518)
mendix/docs: content/en/docs/refguide/mobile/designing-mobile-user-interfaces/edge-to-edge.md

---
title: "Edge-to-Edge Display"
url: /refguide/mobile/designing-mobile-user-interfaces/edge-to-edge/
weight: 25
description: "This guide explains how to implement edge-to-edge display in Mendix native mobile apps and configure bottom bar layouts."
---

## Introduction

Edge-to-edge display is a modern Android design approach where your app's content extends to the full screen, drawing behind the system bars (status bar at the top and navigation bar at the bottom). This creates a more immersive, modern look by utilizing the entire display area.

## How Does Mendix Support Edge-to-Edge Display?

> From Mendix version 11.6.0, Mendix automatically implements edge-to-edge display following Google's recommendations to ensure your app looks modern and polished on Android devices. This means the Android status bar and navigation bar are transparent, allowing your app's design to shine through. System UI elements blend seamlessly with your app's design, creating a cohesive, polished appearance.

Reviewer: Is this introduced in a particular Mendix version, or a particular native template?
```suggestion
From Native template version 16.1.0, Mendix automatically implements edge-to-edge display following Google's recommendations to ensure your app looks modern and polished on Android devices. This means the Android status bar and navigation bar are transparent, allowing your app's design to shine through. System UI elements blend seamlessly with your app's design, creating a cohesive, polished appearance.
```

The status bar has the following changes:

* It takes on the color of your app's background (typically the header area).
* Your app content extends behind the status bar (which shows items such as the time, battery charge, and notifications).

### Navigation Bar Changes

The navigation bar has the following changes making your app's bottom navigation appears unified with the Android system UI, creating the polished, edge-to-edge experience that Google recommends:

* It is made transparent, allowing it to blend seamlessly with your app's design. In practice, this means the navigation bar takes on the background color of your bottom bar, making it appear as an integrated part of your app rather than a separate system element.
* Your app content extends behind the navigation bar which contains the back, home, and recent apps buttons.
* The height is automatically adjusted. When the Android navigation bar is present, your app automatically detects its height and adds it to your bottom bar height. This dynamic adjustment ensures that your bottom bar content remains fully visible and accessible, preventing any overlap with the system navigation buttons. 

## What This Means for You

> Mendix 11.6.0 automatically provides you with an edge-to-edge display experience with the following features.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Mendix Native template 16.1.0 automatically provides you with an edge-to-edge display experience with the following features.
```
